= Unit 1, Assignment 5 =

=== 1. How was life in the British American colonies impacted by the turmoil in England between 1607 and 1660? What changed after the Restoration? ===
England experienced a wrenching series of political crises
- Disagreements between King Charles I and Parliament
- Ended in English civil war

During the turmoil in England, the American colonies took care of themselves
- England did not have a system of imperial administration
	- Resulted in American leaders to figure out their own problems
	- Colonies became effectively self-governing


=== 2. What is a proprietorship? List at least two examples. ===
A proprietorship was a colony that was controlled by a Lord Proprietor instead of the king of England.
- Carolina, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania were proprietorships

=== 3. List one identifying trait of each of the following colonies: North Carolina, South Carolina, Pennsylvania ===
North Carolina -> The population makeup of North Carolina consisted of a mixture of poor families, English Quakers, and servants from Virginia.

South Carolina -> South Carolina's main industry was rice. They relied upon thousands of slaves to work their rice plantations (this caused a sharp increase in the African population). Blacks outnumbered whites.

Pennsylvania -> Aimed to be a neo-European settlement. Refuge for Quakers who were kicked out of England.

=== 4. What were the Navigation Acts? ===
The Navigation Act of 1651 stated than any goods carried must be owned by English or colonial merchants.
- Strengthened the ban on foreign traders
- Colonists could only export their goods to England and get European goods from England
- Backed these policies with a military force

=== 5. What is tribalization and why did it occur? How did the Haudenosaunee (Iroquois is the name given by the French) deal with the French and the English? ===
Tribalization is how people who do not belong to a recognized state meet the demands from nearby states.
- Examples in America:
	- European disease killed off many Native Americans

Tribalization occurred because of the European's (the state's) immediate presence/invasion of native lands.

After the French (and their Native allies) attacked Iroquoian villages, they declared neutrality and made alliances with both sides (France and England).  
