= Unit 1, Assignment 8 =

== Thomas Mun on Mercantilism, 1664 ==

==== 1. How can England minimize imports? ====
England can minimize imports by consuming less foreign goods. Especially in their food and clothes. This could be achieved by legislatively limiting the purchase of these goods.

==== 2. How can it maximize exports? ====
England can maximize exports by shipping goods with their own ships. By doing this, they get both the price of the goods as well as the merchant fees, insurance, and taxes.

==== 3. What is the role of the colonies in this plan? ====
In this plan, the colonies are supposed to buy less imported goods and only export goods on English ships.

== British Colonial Trade Regulations, 1651-1763 ==

==== 1. Describe the "mercantilist logic" behind each regulation. ====
Navigation Act 1651:
- A majority of the crew is English
- Was used to eliminate Dutch competition from colonial trading routes

Navigation Act 1660:
- All colonial trade English ships
- Defined "enumerated goods" that could only be shipped to England
- Let England collect taxes on all the biggest exports

Navigation Act 1696:
- Stopped illegal smuggling

==== 2. How might this system have benefited some English colonists ====
This system appropriated many jobs to only English people. The companies in England had a legal monopoly on exports from America.

==== 3. Why might some have opposed it ====
People might have opposed it because it forces exports to be shipped exclusively to England. This could have the repercussion of lowering the buy price and value of goods and increasing the taxes on them.

==== How might those who opposed it have gotten around it? ====
Up until 1696, there was little to no checking or regulation of smuggling. In fact, smugglers might be the reason that the Act was updated in 1696.
