= Unit 2, Assignment 2 =

==== Table progress as of due date: ====
British Action | Year | Description | Rationale (for passage) | Colonial Reaction
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
Proclamation of 1763 | 1763 | Forbade all settlements west of the Appalachian Mountains. Confirmed Native control of the region | Followed the first Treaty of Paris and the Pontiac Rebellion | Many colonists disregarded the Proclamation line and settled west anyways
Currency Act | 1764 | Banned the American colonies from using paper money as legal tender | Ensured that merchants would no longer be paid in money printed in the colonies. Therefore increasing British profits and wealth | It can be inferred that the colonists believed that it was unfair for the British pound to be the only legal currency
Sugar Act | 1764 | Changed the previous tax on molasses (six pence per gallon) to 3 pence per gallon. | 6 pence per gallon essentially outlawed it. Instead of paying it, colonial merchants bribed customs officials for 1.5 pence per gallon. | Little support in Ameirca. New England merchants made fortunes smuggling French molasses. Merchants claimed that the Sugar Act would ruin the distilling industry
Stamp Act | 1765 | Required a tax stamp on all printed items. Taxed the rich more heavily. Required no new bureaucracy. | Hoped the Stamp Act would raise 60,000 pounds per year. Very easy to implement | Benjamin Franklin suggested that Parliament give them seats if they were going to tax them. British argued that they already had virtual representation Parliament because some members were merchants.
Repeal of Stamp Act | 1766 | | | |
Passage of Declaratory Act | 1766 | | | |
Townshend Act | 1767 | | | |
Boston Massacre | 1770 | | | |
Tea Act | 1773 | | | |
Intolerable Acts | 1774 | | | |
Quebec Act | 1774 | | | |
Lexington and Concord | 1775 | | | |
