= Salmon Biological Pump =

==== 1. What is a biological pump? ====
A biological pump is a process in which biology (in this case salmon) transfer a substance in water from one place to another.

==== 2. In paragraph one, what do the words (persistent) and (assimilate) in terms of PCBs? ====
In the context of PCB's, persistent means that it is a pollutant that does not dissolve (ie: stays around). Assimilate means to take in. In this case, the fish are assimilating (taking in. bioaccumulation) the PCB's and bringing them upstream.

==== 3. What were the independent variable and dependent variable? ====
The independent variable was the amount of sockeye salmon that spawned. The Dependent variable is the amount of PCB released into the lake/river.

==== 4. Why was the background PCB concentration needed to determine if any effect was being observed? ====
To be able to determine how much "effect" the salmon were making. You need to know **both** the concentration before spawning and after spawning. The difference is roughly the amount of PCB the salmon brought with them.

==== 5. What is significant about this article in terms of pollution and its impact on the world? (3 sentences) ====
The amount of pollutant that the salmon pump up the rivers is comparable to the amount of waste released annually by hazardous waste facilities. In addition, the amount of PCBs transported by sockeye salmon is greater than the amount transported by traditional atmospheric pathways. Ironically, the nutrient pump that we are all trying to save is also bringing up toxic chemicals

==== 6. Does this change the way you look at salmon considering their importance in the first unit? ====
Yes, this significantly changes the way I look at salmon. Especially in the video, people were talking concurrently about the vast benefits of salmon and why we need to protect them. Seeing another (albeit most likely human-caused) side to them is interesting.
