# Carnegie Mellon

**Most students choose their intended major or area of study based on a passion
or inspiration that’s developed over time – what passion or inspiration led you
to choose this area of study? (300)**

I'm seven years old, and it's ten at night, way past my bedtime. I'm sitting on
the edge of my bed, screwdriver in hand, with the pieces of my partially
disassembled alarm clock neatly laid on my comforter. This isn't the first time
I've taken apart my alarm clock tonight. Seven-year-old me loved to tear apart
Nerf guns, lightsabers, Rubik's cubes, and anything else of the sort to try and
figure out how it worked.

In fourth grade, I joined a First Lego League team at my school. Now, instead
of taking apart my toys, I was able to design, build, and program contraptions
of my own to accomplish specific tasks. For the remainder of elementary and
middle school, I competed on my school's FLL team at the highest level, working
20 and 30 hour weeks, dominating state competitions, and competing at worlds.

In high school, stemming from my love of understanding how things work and my
robotics experience, I specialized in programming. Programming perfectly fits
the mold my earlier experiences created. In computer science, there is an
immense amount of theory to learn. Now, instead of taking apart my clock, I was
delving through the layers of how computers and software worked. My expanding
knowledge and experience allowed me to tackle more difficult problems. Now I'm
writing embedded systems code for my Science Olympiad team and the First
Robotics Competition team I founded, helping peers and teachers with coding
problems, and developing personal projects in a dozen programming languages.

Now I'm seventeen years old, and it's two in the morning. I'm sitting in my
blue La-Z-Boy recliner with a Lenovo x220 in my lap. I'm delving into the code
behind my window manager with the Xorg manual page pulled up on the side,
trying to figure it out.

**Many students pursue college for a specific degree, career opportunity or
personal goal. Whichever it may be, learning will be critical to achieve your
ultimate goal. As you think ahead to the process of learning during your
college years, how will you define a successful college experience? (300)**

My successful college experience is one where I gain the skills, knowledge, and
experience necessary to be successful in the field of programming and computer
science. Unlike its alternatives, college, especially at Carnegie Mellon,
emphasizes and ensures a deep and thorough understanding of the fundamentals;
this is incredibly important for me.

To be a success, my college experience must allow me to focus my studies on the
specific aspects of computer science that interest me most. I love programming
from the ground up and dislike coding with abstraction I don't understand. I
write in C and Rust, reinvent the wheel, and prefer good code over clean code.
In my opinion, systems programming is the pinnacle of computer science.
Carnegie Mellon's Software Systems electives, combined with the core classes,
form a computer science curriculum that offers a surplus of room to explore my
niche and become an expert.

In my ideal college experience, I will broaden my perspective through lived
experiences with my peers. When talking to successful friends and relatives
about their college experiences, the stories and impactful moments they share
often occur outside of the classroom and are shared with others. I would argue
that the interpersonal connections and expansion of worldview gained at college
are as important as the knowledge and degree. CMU's rich culture of tradition,
community, and service aligns with my personal beliefs and college goals.
Inside the classroom, I plan to develop my perspective and societal awareness
through CMU's strong liberal arts and general education classes.

My three pillars of a successful college experience are to gain a deep and
fundamental knowledge of CS in order to be successful in the field, specialize
in what interests me most to gain expertise in that area, and be exposed to new
people, ideas, and experiences.

**Consider your application as a whole. What do you personally want to
emphasize about your application for the admission committee’s consideration?
Highlight something that’s important to you or something you haven’t had a
chance to share. Tell us, don’t show us (no websites please). (300)**

Throughout my application, I've spoken extensively on my love of programming
and my experience thereof. Here, I would like to share a bit of my philosophy
and ethics related to computers and software.

When writing code and choosing software to use, I follow the Unix philosophy. I
use software that is built to "Do One Thing and Do It Well". I'm enamored with
the core utils and their simple, yet powerful composability. By combining a few
simple, decades old programs (sed, awk, xargs, cat, jq, etc) an experienced
user can create powerful and useful scripts in a matter of minutes. When I
program, I write modular, reusable, and clear code as opposed to monolithic,
obfuscated, or heavily abstracted code. I nearly always program in systems
languages like C, Rust, and Zig because of the connection and control over the
computer they provide.

I strongly believe in the importance of understanding your software environment
and tools. To that end, I decided to use Arch Linux and build my system from
scratch. I've handpicked, compiled, installed, and configured each and every
component of the system I run; from the bootloader to the zsh profile to the
screen compositor. For programming, I've meticulously configured neovim in Lua
to meet my need for speed and power in a text editor. Configuring and using
these tools and working primarily in the terminal has granted me a far deeper
appreciation and understanding for how software and computers work than I could
have gained just by writing code.

Ethically, I support free software and reject the use of non-free and
privacy-invasive software. As the Free Software Foundation proclaims, "Free
softwarre is a matter of liberty, not price." Nearly all of the software I use
is free and I aim to spread this message of freedom with others.

