---
geometry: margin=2cm
header-includes:
    - \usepackage{setspace}
    - \doublespacing
    - \usepackage{lineno}
---

# Colorado School of Mines

**Reflect on a time when you had to collaborate with individuals from diverse
backgrounds, experiences, or viewpoints. How did this experience impact your
understanding of identity and the importance of inclusivity? (250)**

One year in the robotics club I was leading, a subset of my friends and I
decided to compete in the make:able challenge. The goal of the challenge was to
develop a product that improves the life of a disabled person. Two of my
friends loved to play chess with their father, who was blind. They noted that
the available blind-accessible chess sets were of poor quality and design. Our
team decided to fix this problem by designing and 3D printing a better blind
accessible-chess set.

Throughout the engineering process, we collaborated with my friend's father and
other members of the blind community. After numerous prototypes, we settled on
an inexpensive and simple design: inset squares to prevent tipping and custom,
tactile pieces for easy recognition.

Working closely with members of the blind community made me acutely aware of
the challenges they face daily. Understanding their background and experiences
strengthened my empathy and made clear the importance of developing accessible
product variants. I realized that inclusivity means ensuring that every person,
regardless of their abilities, has equal access to opportunities.

The genuine happiness that our chess set brought to my friend's family deepened
my belief in the power of inclusivity through innovation. This experience
proved that by embracing diverse perspectives when innovating, we can both
address specific needs and create moments of joy and empowerment.

**Please share a bit more about your academic interests. What do you hope to
study at Mines? If you are undecided, what area(s) of study are you
considering? What has inspired your interests in these areas? Think about your
prior/current coursework, extracurricular activities, work/volunteer
experiences, future goals, or anything else that has shaped your interests. (250)**

My chief interest, and the recipient of the largest portion of my time, is
computer science. My life inside and outside the classroom, in structured
activities and in free time, revolves around programming and computers. I write
my school assignments in LaTeX, and use Vim to programmatically streamline the
homework process. In extracurriculars that require programming, I stand out as
the most experienced and skilled member; in extracurriculars not directly
related to computer science, I bring a unique skill set and way of thinking to
the table. In one of my largest extracurricular endeavors, I co-founded a First
Robotics Competition team and ran it with my friends out of my garage.

The majority of my unstructured time is spent developing personal projects,
messing around with Linux, and assisting peers and teachers. I'm even helping a
current college sophomore with her CS homework and enjoying the coursework. At
Mines, I believe that my love of programming, complemented by a strong
courseload, will develop my passion, knowledge, and skills to prepare me for a
career as a programmer.

Although I'm a programmer at heart, I developed a deep interest in other fields
of engineering: mechanical and electrical through robotics, optical through
Science Olympiad, and many fields of physics through classwork and clubs.
Mines' broad engineering curriculum will empowerwired me to explore additional
engineering topics alongside my chief interest in computer science.

### General Scholarship Application

**The core values of Colorado School of Mines include: inquiry and innovation,
inspiration, challenge, openness, respect, diversity, compassion and
collaboration. Describe how you would build on these values and bring them into
your everyday life, both personally and academically. (300)**

I connect deeply with one of the core values of Mines: respect. To me, respect
is twofold. 

Each and every person deserves a base level of respect by virtue of being
human. Every person deserves to be listened to and have their opinions heard.
Every person deserves to be treated politely and with kindness from the start.
Every person deserves to make their own choices. This is the kind of respect I
have with everybody.

Deep respect, on the other hand, is earned through one's actions and character,
not demanded by their position. One who commands deep respect is a person of
great moral fiber. One who commands deep respect is selfless, thinking not what
others can do for them, but what they can do for others and the community. One
who commands deep respect genuinely listens and responds thoughtfully to
others. Deep respect is mutual: showing deep respect in part commands it. I
plan to command and show deep respect.

**Imagine you're writing the opening chapter of your autobiography. Share the
key experiences that define who you are.  From exciting adventures to personal
triumphs, reveal the moments that have shaped your journey so far. Be vivid and
personal â€“ let your story shine! (300)**

During my childhood, I was always curious and questioned everything around me.
I would constantly ask 'why', and even after receiving an answer, I would
persistently continue to inquire 'why' again and again. This cycle would only
end when my parents grew weary or the line of questioning became circular. As I
matured, my incessant questioning grew into a yearning for the truth and a love
for understanding the reasons behind things.

This desire to understand things deeply drove my passion for computers and
programming. It's the reason I prefer systems programming and it's the reason
why I use Linux. When I understand something at its most fundamental level, the
more complex topics built upon it come naturally to me. In programming, my
dedication to mastering the basics has allowed me to achieve expertise.

At the end of my junior year, my teacher, Mr. Hames, recruited me to lend my
programming and engineering expertise to our school's varsity Science Olympiad
team. I learned that by sharing my skills and knowledge with younger teammates,
I understood the material better myself. The process of teaching someone else
requires you to form your ideas into simple coherent sentences forcing you to
connect with the information deeply. My math teacher, Mr Wajima, will often ask
students who have questions to fully explain themselves. More often than not,
the act of completely speaking their question out loud makes them understand
immediately.

