# Common App Essay (600)

**Describe a topic, idea, or concept you find so engaging that it makes you lose
all track of time. Why does it captivate you? What or who do you turn to when
you want to learn more?**

:e common-app-essay.md
i

One idea has captured my mind for the better part of my life: the idea of a
system so complex that it's often associated with magic, yet so beautifully
simple and modular that an experienced user can construct one to meet his exact
desires and wield one with great power and speed. This idea is, of course, a
computer. More specifically, I am fascinated by computer programming and
software. The innumerable layers from low-level device drivers and the kernel,
all the way up to a graphical interface, comes together to create the most
widely used tool of the 21st century. 

Not all computers are created equally; some are basic Windows installations,
others are Macs, most are graphic-less virtualised computers on servers. Mine
is a finely tuned, half-custom, GNU/Linux based machine that can run on nearly
any hardware. The design philosophy behind my machine is efficiency and speed.
To that end, I use neovim (a modern variant of the legendary Vim) for all my
text editing: working on school assignments, editing system configuration
files, and most importantly, programming.

I'm neither a talented artist nor an experienced musician, and I'm certainly
not a good singer, but when I'm in the zone, behind my computer monitor,
coding, my hands never leaving the keyboard, I feel like a wizard, coconut oily
smooth, gliding from file to file, refactoring on the fly. When I slip into the
zone like that I can program for hours straight without food, sleep, or human
contact. At 6pm I start working on a simulation and pathfinding program for my
school's Science Olympiad team's robotics event. The next thing I know the
simulation is running smoothly and paths are generating properly.

This phenomena can come in handy. At the end of my Junior year, my friends and
I were operating a FRC team out of my garage. The FRC season spans multiple
months and is often a large and heavily organized operation. As a small group
of just 6-7 guys with no adult leadership, we were behind schedule. We found
ourself on Thursday afternoon 2 days before the first competition without any
code and missing an entire subsystem. That night, and the entirety of the next
day, while the other guys were working on getting the end effector attached to
the arm, me, my rubber duck, and a box of animal crackers, wrote and tested all
the code for our robot, finishing with time to spare.

Something I find beautiful about programming is the openness of the whole
discipline. If I find a method, trait, or feature of a language or library I
don't understand, I can almost always simply read the documentation or look at
the implementation and decipher for myself its purpose and use. More often than
not, instead of deliberately searching for more things to learn, I find myself
stumbling across new concepts and information when problem solving and working
on projects.


ZZ
