---
geometry: margin=2cm
header-includes:
    - \usepackage{setspace}
    - \doublespacing
---

# Georgia Tech

**Why do you want to study your chosen major specifically at Georgia Tech? (300)**

My chief interest, and recipient of the largest portion of my time, is
programming and computer science. My life inside and outside the classroom, in
structured activities and in free time, revolves around programming and
computers. I complete school assignments in LaTeX using vim, and have
programmatically streamlined the homework process. In extracurriculars that
require programming, I stand out as the most experienced and skilled member; in
extracurriculars not directly related to computer science, I bring a unique
skill set and way of thinking to the table. The majority of my unstructured
time is spent developing personal projects, messing around with Linux, and
assisting peers and teachers. I'm even helping a current college Sophomore with
her CS homework and enjoying the coursework.

Throughout my programming experience, I've been especially drawn towards
systems programming, computer architecture, theory, operating systems, and
compiler design. I love programming from the ground up and dislike coding with
abstraction I don't understand. I write in C and Rust, reinvent the wheel, and
prefer good code over clean code. In my opinion, systems programming is the
pinnacle of computer science.

Georgia Tech's Threads curriculum will allow me to tailor my CS degree and hone
in on my specific interests. I'm excited to explore a combination of the
Systems & Architecture Thread and the Theory Thread. At Georgia Tech I know
that my love of programming complemented with a strong and specialized
courseload, delivered at the world class Klaus Building, will develop my
passion, knowledge, and skill in the field.

