---
geometry: margin=2cm
header-includes:
    - \usepackage{setspace}
    - \doublespacing
    - \usepackage{lineno}
---

# NC State

**Explain why you selected the academic program(s) above and why you are
interested in studying these at NC State. (250)**

I've lived my entire life in Raleigh and go to high school just five minutes
from NC State. Since I was a kid, I've had my mind set on going to State. As I
got older and my interests expanded and matured, NC State grew to be a better
and better fit. 

My chief interest, and recipient of the largest portion of my free time, is
programming and computer science. Both inside and outside the classroom, in
structured activities and in free time, programming and computers play a
pivotal role. I write my school assignments in LaTeX markup, and have
programmatically streamlined how I complete homework. In extracurriculars that
require programming I stand out as the most experienced and skilled member; in
extracurriculars not directly related to CS I bring a unique skill set and way
of thinking to the table. Much of my unstructured freetime is spent developing
personal projects, messing around with Linux, and assisting peers and teachers.
At State I believe that my love of programming complemented with a strong
courseload will develop my passion, knowledge, and skill in the field.

Although I'm a programmer at heart, I've developed a deep interest in other
fields of engineering: mechanical and electrical through robotics, optical and
energy through Science Olympiad, and many fields of physics through classwork
and clubs. State's broad engineering curriculum will empower me to study many
fields alongside my chief interest in Computer Science.

**Discuss any other obstacles and/or hardships that you have encountered that
have affected you personally or academically and how you dealt with them.
(250)**

I struggled both academically and personally during my freshman year. I was a
strong student up to that point: I did my homework, did well on quizzes and
tests, and consistently placed at the top for standardized assessments. I
struggled in part due to the impact of COVID-19 on my freshman year. During
that year, for the first time ever in my life, I wasn't engaged in class, I
failed to complete homework, and my grades plummeted.

I graduated from a middle school with a class of just 60 kids into a high
school with a class of 100, none of which I knew. The adjustment would have
been difficult enough if school was in person, but being virtual and unable to
make friends for an entire year was devastating. I coped by playing video games
with friends from middle school, digging a deeper hole for myself. I ended
freshman year with the worst grades of my life.

Entering Sophomore year in person was a breath of fresh air. I bounced back
from my first year: I made new friends, did my homework, and started performing
well on quizzes and tests again. My GPA excluding freshman year is above a 3.9,
a whole point better than my freshman GPA. From this experience I learned that
I am most successful when engaged in person and able to collaborate. I hope
that NC State can look past my freshman grades and see me for the student I am
now.

**Critical and creative thinking are valuable skills in problem-solving. Tell
us about a time in which you used one or both of these skills to address a
problem or a need, in or out of the classroom. (600) (Honors College)**

*ethanol*

