---
geometry: margin=2cm
header-includes:
    - \usepackage{setspace}
    - \doublespacing
    - \usepackage{lineno}
---

# Princeton

**Please describe why you are interested in studying engineering at Princeton.
Include any of your experiences in, or exposure to engineering, and how you
think the programs offered at the University suit your particular interests. (250)**

My chief interest, and recipient of the largest portion of my time, is
programming and computer science. My life inside and outside the classroom, in
structured activities and in free time, revolves around programming and
computers. I write my school assignments in LaTeX, and have programmatically
streamlined the homework process. In extracurriculars that require programming,
I stand out as the most experienced and skilled member; in extracurriculars not
directly related to computer science, I bring a unique skill set and way of
thinking to the table.

I spend the majority of my unstructured time developing personal projects,
messing around with Linux, and assisting peers and teachers. I'm even helping a
current college sophomore with her CS homework and enjoying the coursework. At
Princeton, I believe that my love of programming complemented with a strong
courseload will develop my passion, knowledge, and skill in the field.

I love programming from the ground up and dislike coding with abstraction I don't
understand. I write in C and Rust, reinvent the wheel, and prefer good code
over clean code. In my opinion, systems programming is the pinnacle of computer
science. Princeton's computer science systems track aligns perfectly with my
interests.

Although I'm a programmer at heart, I've developed a deep interest in other
fields of engineering: mechanical and electrical through robotics, optical
through Science Olympiad, and many fields of physics through classwork and
clubs. Princeton's broad engineering curriculum will empower me to explore
additional engineering topics alongside my chief interest in Computer Science.

**Princeton values community and encourages students, faculty, staff and
leadership to engage in respectful conversations that can expand their
perspectives and challenge their ideas and beliefs. As a prospective member of
this community, reflect on how your lived experiences will impact the
conversations you will have in the classroom, the dining hall or other campus
spaces. What lessons have you learned in life thus far? What will your
classmates learn from you? In short, how has your lived experience shaped you?
(500)**

During my childhood, I was always curious and questioned everything around me.
I would constantly ask 'why', and even after receiving an answer, I would
persistently continue to inquire 'why' again and again. This cycle would only
end when my parents grew weary or the line of questioning became circular. As I
matured, my incessant questioning grew into a yearning for the truth and a love
for understanding the reasons behind things.

This desire to understand things deeply drove my passion for computers and
programming. It's the reason I prefer systems programming and it's the reason
why I use Linux. When I understand something at its most fundamental level, the
more complex topics built upon it come naturally to me. In programming, my
dedication to mastering the basics has allowed me to achieve expertise.

At the end of my junior year, my teacher, Mr. Hames, recruited me to lend my
programming and engineering expertise to our school's varsity Science Olympiad
team. I learned that by sharing my skills and knowledge with younger teammates,
I understood the material better myself. The process of teaching someone else
requires you to form your ideas into simple coherent sentences forcing you to
connect with the information deeply. My math teacher, Mr Wajima, will often ask
students who have questions to fully explain themselves. More often than not,
the act of completely speaking their question out loud makes them understand
immediately.

When there is not one clear answer to a question I have, I attempt to formulate
an opinion based on observation and fact. I test these opinions by discussing
and debating with people who disagree with me. Speaking with people who
challenge my beliefs requires me to defend my own opinions, or adjust them if
they are indefensible.

During my time in high school, I met, befriended, and spoke with countless
people from all backgrounds and beliefs. In economics class, due to its
inherently sensitive and political nature, some of these differences were
plainly revealed. Even as teenagers, we have strong beliefs. Engaging in
respectful discussion and debate allowed us to explore alternative viewpoints,
challenge our own opinions, and broaden our perspectives. Furthermore, sharing
our beliefs helped us bridge gaps between diverse backgrounds. It humanized
economic theories making them relatable and enabling us to connect on a
personal level. From these interactions, I learned the importance of
challenging beliefs and the necessity of open debate. I believe that by
engaging in civil, uncensored discussion we can reach mutual understanding and
come closer to the truth.

At Princeton, my classmates will learn from me the importance and beauty of the
fundamentals, the power of teaching, and the necessity of open communication.

**Princeton has a longstanding commitment to understanding our responsibility
to society through service and civic engagement. How does your own story
intersect with these ideals? (250)**

Scouts has been a major part of my life since I was five years old. Most people
imagine Boy Scouts as a group of teenage boys going out into the woods and
learning survival skills. While we certainly do that, any scout will tell you
that the real point is leadership and service. The overarching philosophy of my
troop is servant leadership. This concept dictates that, no matter how high
one's rank or position, he leads by example and through acts of service. As
Senior Patrol Leader of my troop, I embodied that philosophy. Throughout my
tenure, I learned that acts of service, both as a community and as individuals,
are conducive to societal well-being and personally self-fulfilling.

I also apply this methodology to my life outside of scouts. In school and
extracurricular settings, I find it most productive to communicate through
action and lead by example. For instance, in my First Robotics Competition
team, I found it easiest to get people to clean up the shop by simply starting
to clean up myself. Humans are imitators and by providing a productive model to
imitate, the community will be better off.

At Princeton, I will apply this philosophy of servant leadership and share
it with my peers. I believe that this will ultimately create a more respectful,
productive, and thriving community.

**What is a new skill you would like to learn in college? (50)**

I would like to learn how to weld.

**What brings you joy? (50)**

Getting stuck on a hard problem and then figuring it out on my own.

**What song represents the soundtrack of your life at this moment? (50)**

Ramble On - Led Zeppelin

