---
geometry: margin=2cm
header-includes:
    - \usepackage{setspace}
    - \doublespacing
    - \usepackage{lineno}
---

# UNC Charlotte

**Please describe why you are interested in attending UNC Charlotte. Your
statement lets us get to know you beyond your coursework and test scores. Your
response will distinguish you from other qualified candidates within the
applicant pool. (250)**

I've lived my entire life in North Carolina. When I first heard of UNC
Charlotte, I was immediately impressed with its Computing program.

My chief interest, and recipient of the largest portion of my time, is
programming and computer science. My life inside and outside the classroom, in
structured activities and in free time, revolves around programming and
computers. I write my school assignments in LaTeX and have programmatically
streamlined the homework process. In extracurriculars that require programming,
I stand out as the most experienced and skilled member; in extracurriculars not
directly related to computer science, I bring a unique skill set and way of
thinking to the table. I spend most of my unstructured time developing personal
projects, messing around with Linux, and assisting peers and teachers. I'm even
helping a current college Sophomore with her CS homework and enjoying the
coursework. At Charlotte, I believe that my love of programming complemented by
a strong course load will develop my passion, knowledge, and skill in the
field.

Unlike most universities, UNC Charlotte's Computer Science degree is not part
of their engineering college. Instead, the Computer Science program is
contained in the College of Computing and Informatics. This separation of
computing and engineering is exciting to me. At UNC Charlotte, instead of
spending class hours learning engineering concepts tangential to my major, I
look forward to focusing on the Computer Science topics that interest me the
most.

