# Virginia Tech

[https://www.vt.edu/admissions/undergraduate/apply/freshman-checklist.html](https://www.vt.edu/admissions/undergraduate/apply/freshman-checklist.html.md)

**Virginia Techâ€™s motto is "Ut Prosim" which means 'That I May Serve'. Share how
you contribute to a community that is important to you. How long have you been
involved? What have you learned and how would you like to share that with
others at Virginia Tech? (120)**

Scouts has been a major part of my life since I was 5 years old. Most people
imagine Boy Scouts as a group of teenage boys going out into the woods and
learning survival skills. While we certainly do that, any scout will tell you
that the real point is leadership and service. The ever-stressed philosophy in
my troop was one of servant leadership. The principles of which dictate that,
no matter how high one's rank or position is, he leads by example and through
acts of service.

*need an explanation of how I would like to share that with others at VT*

**Virginia Techâ€™s Principles of Community supports access and inclusion by
affirming the dignity and value of every person, respecting differences,
promoting mutual understanding and open expression, and strives to eliminate
bias and discrimination. Reflect on a time when you were not able or allowed to
express a different or diverse position or opinion (or you witnessed another
person or group experience the same situation)? How did you respond or wish you
would have responded? Did your viewpoint change in any way after this
experience? (120)**

**Share a time when you were most proud of yourself either as a role model or
when you displayed your leadership. What specific skills did you contribute to
the experience? How did others rely on you for guidance? What did you learn
about yourself during this time? (120)**


**Describe a goal that you have set and the steps you will take to achieve it.
What made you set this goal for yourself? What is your timeline to achieve this
goal? Who do you seek encouragement or guidance from as you work on this goal?
(120)**

When school started in mid-August I knew I was going to have a packed schedule.
The most dreaded and important part to me was doing my college applications. In
order to ensure I had enough time to brainstorm, write, and review my essays, I
set a goal to complete all the rough drafts by the first of October, a month
before my first deadline.

After writing out timeline of self-imposed deadlines, I got to work on my
essays. Almost immediately I fell behind, missing two essays on the first
check-in. Looking for motivation through a shared goal and situation, I reached
out to friends and we scheduled time throughout each week we would dedicate to
working on our essays together.


Goal -> Complete rough draft of all college essays by Oct 1
Timeline -> Oct 1
Encouragement and guidance -> Friends, parents

