**Please tell us what you are interested in studying at college and why.
(200)**

My chief interest, and recipient of the largest portion of my time, is
programming and computer science. My life inside and outside the classroom, in
structured activities and in free time, revolves around programming and
computers. I complete school assignments in LaTeX using vim, and have
programmatically streamlined the homework process. In extracurriculars that
require programming, I stand out as the most experienced and skilled member; in
extracurriculars not directly related to computer science, I bring a unique
skill set and way of thinking to the table. The majority of my unstructured
time is spent developing personal projects, messing around with Linux, and
assisting peers and teachers. I'm even helping a current college Sophomore with
her CS homework and enjoying the coursework. At Washington University I believe
that my love of programming complemented with a strong courseload will develop
my passion, knowledge, and skill in the field.

Although I'm a programmer at heart, I've developed a deep interest in other
fields of engineering: mechanical and electrical through robotics, optical
through Science Olympiad, and many fields of physics through classwork and
clubs. WashU's broad engineering curriculum will empower me to explore
additional engineering topics alongside my chief interest in Computer Science.

**Describe a community you are a part of and your place within in. (250)**

Scouts has been a major part of my life since I was five years old. Most people
imagine Boy Scouts as a group of teenage boys going out into the woods and
learning survival skills. While we certainly do that, any scout will tell you
that the real point is leadership and service. The overarching philosophy of my
troop is servant leadership. This concept dictates that, no matter how high
one's rank or position, he leads by example and through acts of service. As
Senior Patrol Leader of my troop, I embodied that philosophy. Throughout my
tenure, I learned that acts of service, both as a community and as individuals,
are conducive to societal well-being and personally self-fulfilling.

I also apply this methodology to my life outside of scouts. In school and
extracurricular settings, I find it most productive to communicate through
action and lead by example. For instance, in my First Robotics Competition
team, I found it easiest to get people to clean up the shop by simply starting
to clean up myself. Humans are imitators and by providing a productive model to
imitate, the community will be better off.

