# Wisconsin Madison

**Tell us why you decided to apply to the University of Wisconsin-Madison. In
addition, please include why you are interested in studying the major(s) you
have selected. If you selected undecided please describe your areas of possible
academic interest. (650)**

My chief interest, and recipient of the largest portion of my time, is
programming and computer science. My life inside and outside the classroom, in
structured activities and in free time, revolves around programming and
computers. I write my school assignments in LaTeX and have programmatically
streamlined the homework process. In extracurriculars that require programming,
I stand out as the most experienced and skilled member; in extracurriculars not
directly related to computer science, I bring a unique skill set and way of
thinking to the table. I spend most of my unstructured time developing personal
projects, messing around with Linux, and assisting peers and teachers. I'm even
helping a current college Sophomore with her CS homework and enjoying the
coursework. At Charlotte, I believe that my love of programming complemented by
a strong course load will develop my passion, knowledge, and skill in the
field.

Unlike most universities, the University of Wisconsin-Madison's Computer
Science degree is not part of their engineering college. Instead, the Computer
Science program is contained in the School of Computer, Data, and Information
Sciences. This separation of computing and engineering is exciting to me. At
Wisconsin-Madison, instead of spending class hours learning engineering
concepts tangential to my major, I look forward to focusing on the Computer
Science topics that interest me the most.

