# Into Thin Air Diagram Analysis

Krakauer's chapters are mostly linear in time except for several side-story
offshoots and the beginning. He begins the book with him summiting Everest. The
storyline returns to this point about halfway through the book. This separates
the main story into two distinct parts: before Krakauer summits (everything is
fine) and after Krakauer summits (everything is not fine).

Throughout the first part of the book, Krakauer gives a taste of the problems
to come. He explains HAPE, HACE, acclimation, bottled oxygen, as well as the
history and commercialization of Everest (all which play a very important
role). There are several tangents in the first part which come back to play
important roles in the second part. Krakauer begins with an in-depth overview
of the history, politics, and economics of Everest. This is referenced
throughout the book and is the reason for the apparent complete deregulation of
the mountain. Krakauer also devotes a chapter to the debacle with the South
African Team. This too came back to play a part when things got bad in part 2.
The last distinct tangent that Krakauer makes is a description of the guiding
industry. This includes how he was chosen by Hall and the immense pressure put
upon guides to get their clients to the top.

The second part of the book was far more linear, chapters described the
circumstances as Krakauer experienced them with little interruption. Nearly
every potential problem described in part two occurred. A surprising
development in part two was the decision by Hall to not set and ignore their
turnaround time. In part one, Hall was described as a clearheaded,
over-prepared person who put safety first. Krakauer explains that Hall most
likely had great pressure from Scott Fisher's group to succeed in order to keep
his place as the most prestigious Everest guiding group. Krakauer also
repeatedly notes that nobody can think clearly at high altitudes.

Krakauer's story used a lot of characters. This is probably because this is a
real event and it is important to include as many people as possible and to not
alter the plot. Many of the characters were only used once or twice to explain
a tangent of the 
