= Unit 2, Assignment 4 =

=== Table complete: ===
British Action | Description | Rationale (for passage) | Colonial Reaction
--- | --- | --- | ---
Proclamation of 1763 | Forbade all settlements west of the Appalachian Mountains. Confirmed Native control of the region | Followed the first Treaty of Paris and the Pontiac Rebellion | Many colonists disregarded the Proclamation line and settled west anyways
Currency Act (1764) | Banned the American colonies from using paper money as legal tender | Ensured that merchants would no longer be paid in money printed in the colonies. Therefore increasing British profits and wealth | It can be inferred that the colonists believed that it was unfair for the British pound to be the only legal currency
Sugar Act (1764) | Changed the previous tax on molasses (six pence per gallon) to 3 pence per gallon. | 6 pence per gallon essentially outlawed it. Instead of paying it, colonial merchants bribed customs officials for 1.5 pence per gallon. | Little support in America. New England merchants made fortunes smuggling French molasses. Merchants claimed that the Sugar Act would ruin the distilling industry
Stamp Act (1765) | Required a tax stamp on all printed items. Taxed the rich more heavily. Required no new bureaucracy. | Hoped the Stamp Act would raise 60,000 pounds per year. Very easy to implement | Benjamin Franklin suggested that Parliament give them seats if they were going to tax them. British argued that they already had virtual representation Parliament because some members were merchants.
Repeal of Stamp Act (1766) | In 1766, Parliament decided to repeal the Stamp Act and reduced the duty on molasses imposed by the Sugar Act to a penny a gallon | Passed because the Stamp Act was cutting deeply into British exports and thus doing more harm than good. | Textbook doesn't describe colonial reaction. It can be inferred that reaction is more suited towards the next-passed Declaratory Act of 1766
Passage of Declaratory Act (1766) | Explicitly reaffirmed Parliament's "full power and authority to make laws and statues... to bind the colonies and people of America... in all cases whatsoever" | Because they had just swiftly ended the Stamp Act, they hoped it would be forgotten quickly | Textbook doesn't describe colonial reaction. It can be inferred that the vast majority of colonists were not annoyed because it had no impact on their day-to-day lives
Townshend Act (1767) | Imposed taxes on colonial imports of paper, paint, glass, and tea. Expected to raise about 40,000 pounds a year. | Proposed by non-sympathetic exchequer Charles Townshend in order to find a new source of revenue in America. | Americans distinguished between external and internal taxes. They believed that external taxes on trade were acceptable, but that direct, or internal, taxes were not.
Boston Massacre (1770) | On March 5, 1770, a group of nine British redcoats fired into a crwowd and killed five townspeople. | 2,000 troops had been stationed in Boston for a year and a half. | Boston's Radical Whigs labeled the incident a "massacre" and used it to rally sentiment against imperial power
Tea Act (1773) | Provided financial relief for the East India Company, a royally chartered private corporation that served as the instrument of British imperialism. The company was in debt. Made their tea cost less than the currently-being-smuggled Dutch tea. | The East India Company was in debt and had a large surplus of tea because of the high import taxes. Because of this, loyalists and patriots to drink smuggled Dutch tea. | Radical Patriots accused the British ministry of bribing Americans with the cheaper East India Company tea so they would give up opposition to the tea tax. 
Coercive Acts (1774) | Passed four Coercive Acts to force Massachusetts to pay for the tea they had dumped into the ocean. It closed the Boston Harbor, prohibited town meetings, and allowed trials for capital crimes to be transferred to Britain.| The Sons of Liberty dumped 10,000 pounds of tea into the Boston Harbor (Boston Tea Party) | Patriot leaders throughout the colonies labeled the new acts "intolerable" and rallied support for Massachusetts.
Quebec Act (1774) | Allowed the practice of Roman Catholicism in Quebec. | Textbook does not tell why this act was passed | Reignited religious passions in New Englad. Protestants associated Catholicism with arbitrary royal government
Lexington and Concord (1775) | First military engagement of the Revolutionary War | Britain sent troops because the Colonies were arming themselves. | Declaration of Independence and stuff

== The Ideological Roots of Resistance ==
Educated American lawyers created pamphlets of remarkable political sophistication, they gave the resistance movement its rationale and leaders.
- English common law
	- Centuries-old body of legal rules and procedures that protected the lives and property of the monarch's subjects
- Natural rights
	- John Locke's Life, Liberty, and Property
	- "separation of powers" among government departments to prevent arbitrary rule
- The Commonwealth era (1649-1660)
	- England had been a republic
	- urged colonists to "remember your ancestors and your posterity" and to oppose parliamentary taxes
