# Reading Journal

*August 28th* I chose to read Beren and Lúthien. It is a compilation of
different versions, formats, and ways of telling of the story Beren and
Lúthien. It began as many Tolkien books do, with a large preface. Not being one
to skip the pages with the roman numerals, most of this independent reading was
this part. It spoke about publication order, compilation of notes, and some of
the first versions published in *The Silmarillion*. The Notes on the Elder Days
followed The Preface. This consisted of a brief summary of the Elder Days of
Middle Earth (after the creation of Eä and the shaping of Middle Earth ).

*September 1st* Today, I began to read The Tale of Tinúviel. This is
incredibly similar to Beren and Lúthien in *The Silmarillion*. As to not simply
talk about the plot, there is some cool Etymology (history of word stuff) going
on with Tinúviel. Decades before the Professor started writing *The Hobbit* or
*The Lord of the Rings*, he created a conlang (constructed language). This
language, called Quenya in its own tongue, was early Elvish: fondly referred to
as elf-latin. Later in his life, Tolkien decided that in order to make his
language more authentic, he needed a people (and by extension a culture and
world) to speak it. This world (Arda) was the basis for the Lord Of the Rings
(Middle Earth is a continent on Arda) as well as an entire legundarium. I
clearcly digress. The given name of the main female character in Beren and
Lúthien is, well, Lúthien. Her name in Sindarin (a language derived from 
Quenya) means "daughter of flowers". The name given to her by Beren: Tinúviel
translates to "daughter of the starry twilight". Perhaps because Beren first
saw her in a glade, under the stars, at a time that could be considered
twilight. I found an intersting note while reading Humphrey Carpenter's JRR
Tolkien Biography related to this story as well: On the Tolkien families grave,
under Edith Tolkien's name (his wife) "Lúthien" is printed, and under his own
name, "Beren is printed".

*September 14th* I ended up finishing Beren and Lúthien between the last
entry and now. The story began with the official most complete draft that was
published in the Silmarillion. After this draft there are other, previous and
following versions (he didn't publish the last version he wrote). These stories
are interspersed with narration and explanation of the thought and work process
by Christopher Tolkien. 

*September 15th* read Tolkien's short story *Leaf by Niggle* today. Although
it is not related to his other works in any ways, some of his themes and ideals
can still be found in it. Tolkien was a Roman Catholic and devised a way for
his creation myths to align with his world view. He believed (and created) the
idea of a sub-creator, one who is created but can also create. Tolkien
considered himself a sub-creator in all of his stories. In *Leaf by Niggle*,
Niggle is an aspiring artist that lives in a world that does not appreciate
art. But he (as a sub-creator) attempts to create a single masterpiece (this
process is constantly interrupted by menial tasks and chores). Near the end of
the story, after many mishaps and adventures, Niggles sees his painting in
reality not as he had made it but instead how he imagined it. Really good short
story imo.
